
                               PERMIT TO OPERATE 
                         AIR POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY 
                              SPECIFIC CONDITIONS 

            Terra Nitrogen, LP                                   Permit No. 2011-006-TVR2 (M-8) 
            Verdigris Nitrogen Plant — Claremore Nitric Acid, Ammonia, and UAN Plants 

              The permittee is authorized to operate in conformity with the specifications submitted to Air 
              Quality on July 7, 2015, and supplemental information recetved September 3, 2015, April 28, 
              2016, and January 31, 2018. The Evaluation Memorandum    dated March  12, 2018, explains the 
              derivation of applicable permit requirements and estimates of emissions; however, it does not 
              contain limitations or permit requirements. Continuing operations under this permit constitutes 
              acceptance of, and consent to the conditions contained herein. 

              1. Point of emissions and applicable emission limitations. Particulate matter (PM) data refer to 
                 total PM, meaning  filterable and condensable or front half and back half, unless otherwise 
                 indicated.                                                        [OAC  252:100-8-6(a)(1)] 

             EUG1    _  Plant-wide 
             This EUG   is established to address those rules or regulations that apply to the entire facility, 

              including such rules as open burning or fugitive dust. 

           EUG2    ‘Package Boilers 

                A.  Fuel usage of the boilers shall not exceed a total of 744 MMSCEF per year natural gas. 
                B.  These boilers are affected facilities under 40 CFR 63 Subpart DDDDD, and shall comply 
                    with the requirements of items 3 and 4 of Table 3 of DDDDD, performing annual tune- 
                    ups and an initial energy assessment. 

          EUG3   NSPS Boiler 

          SPECIFIC  CONDITIONS  2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             2 

> 

                   . Fuel usage of the boiler shall not exceed 1,021 MMSCF per year. 
                     The boiler is subject to federal New Source Performance  Standards, 40 CFR   Part 60, 
                     Subpart Db,  and  shall comply  with all applicable requirements, including, but not 
                     necessarily limited to those conditions shown in subparagraphs C, D, E, and F following. 
                     (NOTE:   Permit  limitations are more stringent than Db limitations and will result in 
                     compliance with Subpart Db.)                          [40 CFR  60.40b through 60.49b] 
                 C.  The permittee shall comply with NOx emission limitations in 40 CFR 60.44b. The boiler 
                     shall not discharge into the atmosphere any gases that contain nitrogen oxides (expressed 
                     as nitrogen dioxide) in excess of 0.20 lbs/MMBTU.            [40 CFR 60.44b(a)(1) a1) | 
                     The permittee shall comply with the emission monitoring standards of 40 CFR 60.48b. 
                     The permittee shall comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of 40 CFR 
                     60.49b. 
                 F,  Performance testing of the D Boiler to demonstrate compliance  with nitrogen dioxide 
                     emission limitations shall be done on the basis of the average emission rates for NOx 
                     over each  30  successive boiler operating days, a  30-day rolling average.   At  the 
                     conclusion of a boiler operating day following the initial performance testing, data points 
                     from the leading day shall be deleted and data points for the new day added to develop 
                     new rolling average values for NOx emission  rates. During periods when performance 
                     testing is not occurring, these results shall be used to identify and calculate excess 
                     emissions. Exceedances  for each 24-hour period shall be reported to Air Quality every 
                     calendar quarter.                          (40 CFR  60U.46b(e)(4) and OAC 252: 1 UU-2] 
                 G.  This boiler is an affected facility under 40 CFR 63 Subpart DDDDD,  and shall comply 
                     with the requirements of items 3 and 4 of Table 3, performing annual tune-ups and an 
                     initial energy assessment. 

TIO 

            EUG 4    Gas Turbine 

                               ~* Combined  limit with Nitric Acid Plant #1, see EUG 6. 

                 A.  The gas turbine is subject to federal New Source Performance Standards, 40 CFR Part 60, 
                     Subpart GG,  and shall comply with all applicable requirements. Note that NOx standards 
                     are overridden by the allernalive emissions reduction agreement. 
                                                                             [40 CFR  60, OAC  252:100-11] 
                 B.  SO   emissions shall not exceed 150 ppm,  dry-basis, corrected to 15% oxygen   (NOTE: 
                     permit emission limitations are more stringent than this limitation). [40 CFR 60.333(a)] 
                 C.  Monitoring  of fuel sulfur content is not required when  a gaseous fuel is fired in the 
                     turbine and the owner or operator demonstrates that the gaseous fuel meets the definition 
                     of "natural gas" using one of the methods in §60.334(h)(3)(@) or (i). Paragraph 60.331 
                     defines natural gas as containing 20 grains or less of total sulfur per 100 standard cubic 

           SPECIFIC CONDITIONS   2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             3 

                     feet and is either composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume  or has a gross 
                     caloric value between 950 and 1100 BTU/sctf.                   [40 CFR60.334(h)(3)] 

                   . The  permittee shall monitor fuel flow  to the Gas Turbine  on a continuous  basis and 

                     reduce the data to monthly average values.                         [OAC  252:100-43] 
                     The  gas turbine shall be operated with control technology sufficient to meet the NOx 
                     limitations described above. Performance testing adequate to demonstrate that the NOx 
                     limit can be  achieved shall be performed   for the control technology utilized.  The 
                     performance  test shall be performed for each renewal (every five years) of the Title V 
                     permit and the results shall be provided with each application for renewal. 
                     Reference Method  performance  testing of particulate emissions shall be performed during 
                     the term of the Part 70 renewal permit, with results to be included in the next renewal 
                     application.                                                       [OAC  252:100-43] 

         EUG5   Condensate Strippers 

             The VOC   shown in the immediately preceding table is principally methanol. 

A. 

                     At least once  per month,  the permittee shall conduct  testing of VOC  (as Methanol) 
                     concentrations in liquid feed to the Process Condensate Stripper. At  the option of the 

                     permittee, the concentrations in the discharges may also be monitored. 
                                                                                    [Permit No. 99-083-TV] 

                   . The volume  of feed to the unit shall be monitored and recorded at least on a monthly 

                    basis.                                                       [Permit No. 99-083-TV] 
                  . Measurements  of inlet VOC (as Methanol) concentrations and feed rates shall be used to 
                    determine VOC   emissions each month.                        [Permit No. 99-083-TV | 
                        Nitric Acid Plants 

EUG 6 

                                           *Combined   limit with EUG    4, based  on  alternative 
                                           emission reduction plan (AER) 

          SPECIFIC  CONDITIONS  2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             4 

                 A. Nitric Acid Plant No. 2 is subject to 40 CFR Part 60 NSPS  Subpart G,  including the 
                    following.                                [40 CFR  60 Subpart G and OAC  252:100-2] 

                    i.  Opacity of emissions from the Nitric Acid Plant No. 2 shall not exceed 10 percent. A 
                        correlation between concentrations of NOx and  opacity has shown that the opacity 
                        will not exceed 10% at concentrations up to and exceeding the ppm limits established 
                        under Subpart G.  Thus, the existing monitoring of ppm NOx concentrations through 
                        CEMs   is sufficient to demonstrate compliance  with the opacity standard  of the 
                        subpart.                                                     [40 CFR 60.72(a)(2)] 
                    ii. NOx  emissions shali not exceed 3.0 Ibs/ton of 100% nitric acid produced, as a 3-hour 
                        average.                                                     [40.CFR 60.72(a)(1)| 
                    iii. NOx emissions  from the Nitric Acid plants shall be monitored with a continuous 
                        emissions monitoring system (CEMS).                            [40.CFR  60.73(a)| 
                    iv. Except as discussed in Subcondition D below, NOx emission rates shall be calculated 
                        using the correlations developed from annual performance testing as required by the 
                        consent decree. To determine compliance with the 3.0 lbs/ton of acid produced limit, 
                        the CEMS  data shall be reduced to 3-hour averages.            [40 CFR  60.73(b)] 

                 B. Beginning  June 30, 2016, compliance  with the AER  NOx  emission  limit of 75.77 lb/hr 
                     and 224.4 TPY  for the combined emission from  Nitric Acid Plant No. 1 of EUG  6 and 
                     gas turbine of EUG 4 shall be determined on the basis of 12-month rolling totals. 

                 C. Nitric Acid Plant No. 1 is subject to 40 CFR Part 60 NSPS  Subpart Ga, including the 
                    following.                               [40 CFR  60 Subpart Ga and OAC  252:100-2] 

                     i, On  and after the date on which the performance  test required to be conducted by 
                        §60.73a(e) is completed, emissions of NOx, expressed as NOz, shall not exceed 0.50 
                        pounds per ton of nitric acid produced, as a 30-day emission rate calculated based on 
                        30 consecutive operating days. The emission standard applies at all times. 
                                                                                         [40 CFR  60.72a] 
                    ii. NOx   emissions from the Nitric Acid Plants shall be monitored with  a continuous 

                         emissions monitoring system (CEMS).                                [40 CFR  60.72a] 
                     ili. A stack gas flow rate monitoring system shall be installed.    [40 CFR  60.73a(a)| 
                     iv. Acid production  expressed  as 100%   nitric acid, and hours of  operation shall be 
                         recorded.                                                       [40 CFR  60.73a(c)] 

                 D. Provisions of Consent Decree No. 11-4038  (CD  11-4038) became  effective on June 30, 
                    2013  for short term emission limits and on June 30, 2014 for long term limits, all with 
                    respect to Nitric Acid Plant #2. Provisions of CD 11-4038 became effective on June 30, 
                    2014  for short term emission limits and on June 30, 2015 for long term limits, all with 
                    respect to Nitric Acid Plant #1. Pursuant to CD 11-4038, emissions of NOx   shall not 
                    exceed the following limits. 

                     i,  Short-term NOx   limit of 1.0 lb/ton nitric acid produced (with the production being 
                         expressed as 100 percent nitric acid) based on a rolling 3-hour average (rolled hourly) 
                         excluding periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction. 

           SPECIFIC CONDITIONS   2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             5 

                    ii. Long-term  NOx  limit of 0.6 lb/ton nitric acid produced (with production being 
                        expressed as 100 percent nitric acid) based on a rolling 365-day average (rolled daily) 
                        including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. 
                    iii. Compliance with short-term and long-term NOx limits shall be determined based on 
                        continuous  emissions monitoring   conducted  in accordance   with the  CEMS 
                        Monitoring Plan for NOx Emissions included as Attachment C of CD 11-4038. 
                    iv. The NOx  shall not exceed 200 ppmvd during normal operation and shall not exceed 
                        5,000 ppmvd as determined by CEMS  during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions. 
                    v.  The above NOx  emissions requirements applicable to each Covered Nitric Acid Plant 
                       were  established pursuant to a negotiated Consent Decree with EPA and shall not be 
                       relaxed without the approval of EPA and ODEQ.          [Consent Decree 11-4038] 
                    vi. The CD   established a CEMS   Monitoring  Plan  that consists of sections titled: 
                       Principles; Definitions; Emissions Monitoring; Production Data; Conversion Factor; 
                       Emissions   Calculations; Rounding   of  Numbers   resulting from  Calculations; 
                       Compliance   with Consent  Decree  NOx  Limits;  Retention  of All CEMS   Data, 
                       including Data during Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction; Analyzer Specifications; 
                       and  Compliance  with NSPS   40  CFR60,  Subpart  G.  Each  of these sections is 
                       described in the following paragraphs. 

                 Principles This CEMS   Plan is the mechanism for determining compliance with the short- 
                 term and long-term NOx  limits applicable to each covered nitric acid plant and is used to 
                 evaluate the compliance status with the NSPS NOx  limits. The methodology  described in 
                 this CEMS  Plan will provide a continuous indication of compliance with these limits by 
                 accurately determining the emission rate in terms of pounds of NOx emitted per ton of 100% 
                 nitric acid produced (Ib/ton) as a rolling 3-hour average and as a rolling 365-day average. 
                 The CEMS    will utilize equipment to measure  stack NOx   concentration and the stack 
                 volumetric flow  rate.  From   these data, real-time, accurate, and  quality controlled 
                 measurements of the mass NOx emission rate can be obtained. 
                 Definitions Terms used in this CEMS Plan that are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA) or in 
                 federal or state regulations promulgated pursuant to the CAA   shall have the meaning 
                 assigned to them in the CAA or such regulations, unless otherwise defined in the CD. The 
                terms used in this CEMS  Plan that are defined in the CD shall have the meaning assigned to 
                them  therein. The following definitions specifically apply for purposes of this CEMS Plan. 
                  e   “CEMS”    or “Continuous   Emissions  Monitoring  System”   shall mean  the  total 
                  equipment  required under this CEMS Plan used to sample and condition (if applicable), to 
                  analyze, and to provide a permanent record of emissions or process parameters. 
                  e   “Day,” “day,” or “calendar day” shall mean a calendar day. 
                  e   “Long-Term  NOx   Limit” shall mean a 365-day  rolling average NOx emission  limit 
                  (rolled daily) expressed as pounds of NOx emitted per ton of 100% nitric acid produced 
                  (lb/ton); compliance with the Long-Term NOx Limit shall be calculated in accordance with 
                  this CEMS  Plan. The Long-Term  NOx   Limit applies at all times, including during periods 
                  of startup, shutdown, or malfunction (SSM). 
                  e   “Malfunction” shall mean, consistent with 40 CFR 60.2, any sudden, infrequent, and 
                  not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or 
                  a process to operate in a normal or usual manner, but shall not include failures that are 
                  caused in whole or in part by poor maintenance or careless operation. 

          SPECIFIC  CONDITIONS  2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             6 

                   e  “NSPS  NOx  Limit” shall mean the NOx emission limit expressed as 1.5 kg of NOx per 
                   metric ton of 100% nitric acid produced (3 lb per ton) specified at 40 CFR 60.72(a)(1). 

                      “NOx”  shall mean the pollutant nitrogen oxides. For the purpose of calculating mass 
                   mission rataa NOK  hag Le | molecular Wet oht of 46 ADSS Th/lh-mal 

                    mission rates, NOx has a molecular weight of 46.0055 |b/lb-mol. 
                      “NOx   stack analyzer” shall mean  that portion of the CEMS   that senses NOx   and 
                   generates an output proportional to the NOx concentration. 
                   e  “100%   nitric acid produced”   shall mean  the  quantity of a  nitric acid product 
                   manufactured by the nitric acid plant multiplied by the concentration of actual nitric acid in 
                   the product. For example, if the nitric acid plant produces 100 tons of a 54% nitric acid 
                   product, this equals 54 tons of 100% nitric acid produced. 
                   e  “QOne-hour period” and “1-hour period” shall mean any 60-minute period commencing 
                   on the hour. 
                   «  “One-minute   measurement”   shall mean  any  single measurement  or  the arithmetic 
                   average of multiple measurements of a parameter during a one-minute period on the clock. 
                   e  “Operating  Periods” shall mean  periods during which  a covered nitric acid plant is 
                   producing nitric acid and NOx 1s emitted, including periods of SSM. 
                   e  “Short-Term  NOx   Limit”  shall mean a 3-hour  rolling average NOx  emission  limit 
                   (rolled hourly) expressed in terms of pounds of NOx emitted per ton of 100%  nitric acid 
                   produced  (b/ton); compliance  with the Short-Term  NOx   Limit  shall be calculated in 
                   accordance with  this CEMS   Plan.  The Short-Term  NOx   Limit does  not apply during 
                   periods of SSM. 
                   e  “Shutdown”   shall mean the cessation of nitric acid production operations of a covered 
                   nitric acid plant for any reason. Shutdown begins at the time the feed of ammonia to the 
                   covered nitric acid plant ceases and ends 3 hours later. 
                   e  “Stack flowmeter”  shall mean that portion of the CEMS that senses the volumetric flow 
                   rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate. 
                   e  “Startup” shall mean  the process of initiating nitric acid production operations of a 
                   covered nitric acid plant. Startup begins one hour prior to the initiation of the feed of 
                   ammonia   to the covered nitric acid plant and ends no more  than five hours after such 
                   initiation of the feed of ammonia. 
                   e  “Ton”  or “tons” shall mean short ton or short tons. One ton equals 2,000 pounds. 
                 Emissions  Monitoring   Emissions  monitoring under this CEMS  Plan will be done using a 
                 NOx   stack analyzer and a stack flowmeter on each  covered nitric acid plant. Except for 
                 periods of CEMS  breakdowns,  analyzer malfunctions, repairs, and required quality assurance 
                 or  quality control activities Gncluding calibration checks and required  zero and  span 
                 adjustments), operator will conduct continuous monitoring pursuant to this CEMS   Plan at 
                 each covered nitric acid plant during all operating periods as follows. 
                   e  Once  every minute, the NOx  stack analyzer will measure the stack NOx concentration, 
                   in parts per million by volume, dry basis (ppmvd) and the stack flowmeter will measure the 
                   volumetric flow rate in dry standard cubic feet per minute (dscfm). For the purposes of the 
                   calculations under this CEMS   Plan, as-is volumetric flow  rate measurements  will be 
                   assumed  to be dry, unless the covered nitric acid plant is equipped with a continuous 
                   moisture analyzer, in which case the plant may adjust for moisture contained in the stack 
                   gas. 

e@ od ® 

          SPECIFIC  CONDITIONS  2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             7 

                   e  For  every  1-hour period, the CEMS   will reduce  the 60 one-minute  measurements 
                   generated  by  each  analyzer by  taking  the arithmetic average  of  the previous  60 
                   measurements  during the l1-hour period. This datum will be used to calculate the 3-hour 
                   average NOx  emission rate. 
                 Backup  Monitoring  Procedure for Long-Term   NOx  Limit In the event that the NOx  stack 
                 analyzer and/or stack flowmeter is/are not available or is/are out-of-control, the following 
                 backup monitoring  procedure will be implemented. 
                   e  Other than as specified below for a CEMS  outage or out-of-control period less than 24 
                   consecutive hours, data gaps in the array will be filled by complying with the following 
                   requirements. 
                     o  Exit stack gas will be sampled and  analyzed for NOx  at least once every three (3) 
                     hours during all operating periods. Sampling  will be conducted  by making   physical 
                     measurements  of the NOx   concentration in the  gas stream to the main  stack using 
                     alternative/non-CEMS  methods  (e.g., through the use of a portable analyzer or non- 
                     certified NOx stack analyzer). The reading obtained will be substituted for the 180 (or 
                     less) one-minute measurements   that would  otherwise be utilized if the CEMS   were 
                     operating normally. Alternatively, the required sampling and analysis may be conducted 
                     using a redundant certified NOx analyzer. 
                     o  Stack volumetric flow rate will be estimated using engineering judgment. 
                   e  During  required quality assurance or quality control activities (including calibration 
                   checks and required zero and  span adjustments) of the CEMS   and  stack flowmeter, the 
                   previous calendar day average value may be utilized to fill in the data gaps. 
                   e  If either or both of the CEMS  or stack flowmeter is/are not operating for a period of 
                   less than 24 consecutive hours due to breakdowns, malfunctions, repairs or out-of-control 
                   period of the same, the previous calendar day average value may be utilized to fill in the 
                   data gaps. 
                 Production  Data    Following  each calendar  day at each  covered nitric acid plant, the 
                 permittee shall record the quantity of nitric acid produced during that day and the average 
                 strength of the nitric acid produced during that day. This information will be used to calculate 
                 100%  nitric acid produced for that day, in units of tons per day. 
                 Conversion  Factor  During each required performance test for each covered nitric acid plant 
                 required under Paragraph 24  of the CD, the permittee shall develop a conversion factor in 
                 units of lb/ton of 100% nitric acid produced per ppmvd, consistent with 40 CFR 60.73(b). 
                 Emissions  Calculations 
                 Rolling 3-hour average  Compliance   with the Short-Term NOx   Limit shall be based on a 
                 rolling 3-hour average (rolled hourly). For purposes of calculating a rolling 3-hour average 
                 NOx  emission rate, the CEMS will maintain an array of the three most recent and contiguous 
                 1-hour period average measurements of stack NOx  concentration. Every hour, it will add the 
                 most recent 1-hour period average measurement  to the array and exclude the oldest 1-hour 
                 period average  measurement.    Data  generated using  the backup  monitoring  procedure 
                 specified above need not be included in this calculation. 
                 The rolling 3-hour average lb/ton NOx emission  rate (E3hravg) will then be calculated every 
                 hour using the following equation. 
                                            E3hravg = K/3 x 72,  CNOxi , where: 
                      Cnoxi = arithmetic average of 60 one-minute measurements of stack NOx concentration, 
                      ppmvd,  in a 1-hour period; 

          SPECIFIC  CONDITIONS  2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             8 

                      K  = conversion factor determined during most recent NOx performance  test (Ib/ton of 
                       100% nitric acid produced per ppm); 
                      E3hrave = 3-hour average lb NOx per ton 100% nitric acid produced. 
                 Rolling 365-day average   Compliance  with the Long-Term  NOx  Limit shall be based on a 
                 rolling 365-day average (rolled daily). For purposes of calculating the 365-day average NOx 
                 emission rate each calendar day at each covered nitric acid plant, the permittee shall maintain 
                 an array of mass emissions (lb/day) of NOx calculated using the following equation and the 
                 100%  nitric acid produced for that day (tons/day) and for the preceding 364 days, shall be 
                 maintained. Each  subsequent day, the data from that day shall be added to the array, and the 
                 data from the oldest day shall be excluded. 
                 For purposes of calculating daily mass emission rate, the CEMS  will maintain an array of 
                 each one-minute  measurement  of the NOx  concentration (ppmvd)  at the exit stack and of 
                 each one-minute  measurement  of volumetric flow rate (dscfm) of the exit stack over each 
                 day. In the event that one or more of the CEMS and stack flowmeter is/are not available, the 
                 backup monitoring procedure discussed above will be used to fill in the gaps. 
                 Following  each calendar day, the daily NOx  mass  emissions will be calculated using the 
                 following equation. 

                                  Mnoxbay  = 1.193 x 107 x  ¥7_, QStackiCNOxi , where: 
                      Cnoxi = one-minute measurements of Bea  NOx  concentration, ppmvd, at interval “1”; 
                      Qstacki = one-minute measurements of stack volumetric flow rate, dscfm, at interval “1”; 
                      1.193 x 10°’ = conversion factor in units of pounds per standard cubic foot (Ib/scf) of 
                      NOx  per ppm; 
                      Mnoxpay  = mass emissions of NOx during a calendar day, pounds; 
                      n= number  of minutes of operating period in a calendar day. 

                  Following each calendar day, the NOx  emission rate averaged over a rolling 365-day period 
                  as lb/ton, shall be calculated using the following equation. 

                                     E365-Dayave = 322, MNOxDayd  = 913°, Pd, where: 
                      MnoxDayd = Mass emissions of NOx during calendar day “d”, pounds; 
                      Pa = 100% nitric acid produced during calendar day “d”, tons; 
                      E365-Dayave  365-day rolling avcrage lb NOx per ton of 100% nitric acid produced. 

                 Rounding  of Numbers   Resulting from Calculations  Upon  completion of calculations, the 
                 final numbers for E3nravg shall be rounded to the nearest tenth, and the final numbers for 
                 E36sDayavg Shall be rounded to the nearest hundredth. The numbers 5 through nine shall be 
                 rounded up and the numbers | through 4 shall be rounded down. 
                 Compliance  with Consent  Decree NOx   Limits 
                 Short-Term NOx   Limits Short-term limits do not apply during periods of SSM. During all 
                 other operating periods, a covered nitric acid plant will be in compliance with the Short-Term 
                 NOx  Limit specified in the CD if Esnrayg does not exceed 1.0 lb of NOx per ton of 100% nitric 
                 acid produced. If the permittee contends that any 3-hour rolling average emission rate is in 
                 excess of 1.0 Ib/ton due to the inclusion of hours of SSM in the 3-hour period, Esnravg shall be 
                 recalculated to exclude measurements recorded during the periods of the claimed SSM(s). 
                 Nothing  in this CEMS  Plan  shall preclude the use, including the exclusive use, of any 

           SPECIFIC CONDITIONS   2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                             9 

                 credible evidence or information relevant to whether a covered nitric acid plant would have 
                 been  in compliance  with  the short-term limit if the appropriate performance  test or 
                 compliance procedure had been performed. 
                 NSPS  NOx   Limits  The NOx   limit of NSPS Subpart G  does not apply during periods of 
                 SSM.   During all other operating periods, Plant No. 2 will be in compliance with the NOx 
                 limit of NSPS Subpart G if E3nravg does not exceed 3.0 Ib of NOx per ton of 100% nitric acid 
                 produced.  If the permittee contends that any 3-hour rolling average rate is in excess of 3.0 
                 Ib/ton due to the  inclusion of hours of SSM,   E3nravg shall be recalculated to exclude 
                 measurements  recorded during the periods of the claimed SSM. Nothing in this CEMS Plan 
                 shall preclude the use, including the exclusive use, of any credible evidence or information 
                 relevant to whether Plant No. 2 would have been in compliance with the NOx limit of NSPS 
                 Subpart G if the appropriate performance test or compliance procedure had been performed. 
                 Long-Term  NOx   Limits  Long-term  limits apply at all times, including during periods of 
                 SSM.   A  covered nitric acid plant will be in compliance with the Long-Term NOx Limit 
                 specified in the CD if E365-payaveg does not exceed 0.6 lb of NOx per ton of 100% nitric acid 
                 produced. 
                 Retention of All CEMS   Data, including Data during SSM   All data generated by the NOx 
                 analyzer and stack flowmeter, including all data generated during SSM at each covered nitric 
                 acid plant shall be retained in accordance with Section XI of the CD. 
                 Analyzer  Specifications The NOx   stack analyzer and the stack flowmeter required under 
                 this CEMS  Plan at each covered nitric acid plant shall meet the following specifications. 

                 The NOx  stack analyzer shall meet all applicable requirements of 40 CFR §§60.11 and 60.13, 
                 and Appendix  B, Performance Specification 2, as well as the Quality Assurance and Quality 
                 Control Procedures of 40 CFR 60 Appendix  F, Procedure 1. The daily drift test requirement 
                 at 40 CFR  60.13(d) and the requirements of Appendix F apply to only the normal range of 
                 the NOx  stack analyzer. The SSM  range of the NOx stack analyzer shall be evaluated once 
                 each calendar quarter to verify accuracy. 
                 The stack flowmeter shall meet 40 CFR  60, Appendix  B, Performance Specification 6, and 
                 shall be evaluated once each quarter and during the RATA   of the NOx  stack analyzer to 
                 verify accuracy. 
                 Compliance  with  NSPS  40  CFR  60, Subpart  G   In addition to the requirements in this 
                 CEMS   Plan, Plant No. 2 shall comply with all of the requirements of Subpart G that apply to 
                 Plant No. 2, except that pursuant to 40 CFR 60.13(i), this CEMS Plan will supersede the 
                 following provisions of Subpart G. 
                  e   ‘The requirement of 40 CFR 60.73(a) that the NOx stack analyzer have a span value of 
                  500 ppm.   Span values listed in the Analyzer Specifications table of this CEMS Plan shall 
                  be used in lieu of Subpart G values. 
                  e   The requirement  at 40 CFR  60.73(a) that pollutant gas mixtures under Performance 
                  Specification 2 and for calibration checks under 40 CFR   60.13(d) be nitrogen dioxide 

          SPECIFIC  CONDITIONS   2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                            10 

                   (NO2).  Plant No. 2 shall use calibration gases containing NO and/or NO2 as appropriate to 
                   assure accuracy of the NOx stack analyzer except where verified reference cells are used in 
                   accordance with Performance  Specification 2. 

          EUG7     Urea-UAN Plants 

                 A. Ammonia   neutralizer operations of each plant shall be maintained in the following 
                 ranges.                                                         [OAC   252:100-8-6(a)] 
                    1. pH  of 4.0 or lower 
                    2. Maximum   temperature of 215°F for discharges from the neutralizers’ stack outlets. 

                  B. Particulate emissions from the #1 UAN  Plant shall be controlled by a condenser/evaporator 
                  system.  At such times that the condenser/evaporator system is not operating and the bypass 
                  valve is open at Plant #1 and at all times at Plant #2, air exhausts from the UAN plants shall be 
                  processed by mist  eliminators or equivalent systems with 80%   or better efficiency for PM 
                  emissions control. The #1 and  #2 UAN   plant mist eliminators shall be operated at a pressure 
                  differential of at least 2 inches WC. The  permittee shall monitor the operating parameters 
                  (pressure differential for mist eliminators or equivalent parameters tor equivalent devices) at 
                  least once per day. If the operating parameters (pressure differential) are monitored more than 
                  once daily, a daily average of the operating parameters must  be calculated for determining 
                  compliance. 

                 C.  The #1 UAN   Plant by-pass valve position shall be monitored and recorded daily. 
                                                                                    [OAC   252:100-8-6(a)] 

          EUG8    Ammonia Plant Primary Reformers 

           SPECIFIC CONDITIONS   2011-006-TVR2 (M-8)                            11 

                 A.  The permittee shall monitor and record natural gas flow to the auxiliary burner sections 
                 of the #1 Primary Reformer  and the #2 Primary Reformer.  Daily records of the natural gas 
                 usage rate shall be maintained for each of the auxiliary burner sections. 
                 B.  Plant #2 is subject to the emission limitations listed on the second line of the preceding 
                 table (10291e) until completion of the burner replacement project authorized by modified 
                 permit 2006-003-TVR   (M-8).  Upon  completion of these projects, Plant #2 will be subject to 
                 the emission limitations listed in the third line of the table (10291p). 
                 C.  Reference  Method  performance   testing of all pollutants with authorized emissions 
                 exceeding 250  TPY  but not exceeding 500 TPY  (CO)  shall be performed no less frequently 
                 than  every alternate year, such as every  even-numbered   or every  odd-numbered   year. 
                 Reference Method  performance  testing of all pollutants with authorized emissions exceeding 
                 500  TPY  (PMio, PM2.s, SO2z, and NOx)  shall be performed  in each of the five 12-month 
                 periods following the issuance date (August 28, 2013) of Part 70 renewal permit 201 1-006- 
                 TVR2,   with results to DEQ within  60 days of each test. Reference  method  performance 
                 testing of pollutants with authorized emissions less than 250 TPY (PMio, PM25, and SOz2 for 
                 the Plant #1 Primary Reformer and VOC  for both reformers) is not required. 

           EUG9    Ammonia Plant Start-up and Shutdown Vents 

                     Emissions  of CO  from  these points shall be reported on  the facility annual emission 
                     inventory. 

            EUG  10  Vents 

             The VOC  shown  in the immediately preceding table is principally methanol. 
